# Disco-rs

This crate is a no-std, pure Rust impl of the [Disco Noise Protocol
Extension](https://discocrypto.com/). It is implemented in an entirely
generic way so that the underlying encryption libraries are pluggable by
the integrator (that's you). This has **not** been audited formally yet
so it should be considered experimental and not ready for production
use.

This implementation is notable in that it supports some of the [Advanced
Features](http://noiseprotocol.org/noise.html#advanced-features) listed
in ยง11 of the Noise specification. Specifically, this crate supports
channel binding and out-of-order transport messages. The main difficulty
with out-of-order transport messages is tracking which
nonces you have seen to defend against replay attacks. For small numbers
of messages in a session, this is trivial, but long-lived sessions with
many millions or billions of messages make tracking nonces extremely
difficult. The example implementation in the `test` folder uses a
simplistic sliding window approach to tracking nonces for demonstration
purposes.

This is not a plug-and-play solution. You will need to do some coding to
make this work for you. There are five traits in this crate that you
must impl with your own chosen cryptography library. They can be found
in `src/tag.rs`: `Tag` and `TaggedData`, `src/key.rs`: `KeyType`,
`KeyGenerator`, and `KeyAgreement`, and in `src/nonce.rs`:
`NonceGenerator`. That said, for the impatient among you, the `tests`
folder has an example impl and tests of these traits using the common
`x25519_dalek` crate. It's not difficult to plug your own favorite
cryptography library in, but it is also not trivial. If you don't have a
very good understanding of Noise and Disco, they you should probably
look elsewhere.

## Handshakes

This crate supports all of the handshake patterns listed in the Disco
extension documentation: N, K, X, Npsk0, Kpsk0, Xpsk1, NN, KK, XX, IK,
IX, NK, NX, XK1, KK1, and NNpsk2. You can always add your own favorite
handshake to the crate by editing `src/params.rs` to include it. That
file is well documented and I think it is easy to figure out how to
define a new handshake using the existing code. Please be sure to add
tests for any new handshakes in either `tests/one_way.rs` or
`tests/two_way.rs` depending on which handshake you add.

## Feedback

If you are using this crate, I encourage you to drop me a line and send
any feedback my way. If you find any issues or have feature requests,
please send a PR or file an Issue.
